/*
NetLogo Exploration
Step 1- 
Introduce Netlogo as a powerful resource that could be used not only in programming, but also for research.
Instruct students to use the web version of the site only as they would not be able to install Netlogo on the school computers, but clarify that the downloaded version is more powerful.
Suggest that students install the program on their personal computers in order to run it better.
Step 2- 
Go to Models-Library and show the students the path to Fairy Cycles: Models-Library-Biology-Fairy Cycles;
Open the and read: What is it; How it works; How to use it; 
Click Try running it in NetLogo Web;
Run it and ask students what they notice. Try to establish a connection between what they see on the screen and How it works.
Step 3- Delve a bit further down the list of subjects and topics so students can see the range of possibilities and what is available.
Step 4- Allow the students to spend 10 minutes going through the library to explore topics on their own.
Step 5- Ask students to volunteer to show what they found that interested
(Not) step 6- I would not go into the actual coding and commands on the first day.
Why I would follow the above sequence-
I would show the students that NetLogo can be used not only for coding, but also for research.
I would emphasize that Netlogo is a great way to find visual material that illustrates topics in several different areas of study.
Students’ idea of research is to enter things on the Google search box and follow the tread or go on Youtube to look for videos.
By showing the range of Netlogo and its visual aspects, I hope to impress upon the students the value of using the site.
I think that in order to raise student interest it is always good to empower them and to give them ownership of their own learning.
I would not introduce the programming capabilities of NetLogo on the first day because I don’t think that one period is enough to do all the things that need to be done.
The most important thing to do on the first day is not only to present NetLogo as a viable programming tool, but also to emphasize its interesting features.


/*