Lesson 2

This lesson would take place 2 days after the assignment of the project. On day 2 students worked with their groups to finish their code.

Aim: To Present the The Spaceman Game Project.

Do Now- get together with your group in a breakout room to make the final preparations to present your project, assign roles, upload the code, etc.

Mini Lesson- 
Instructions on how to present and how to participate as an audience.
Presenters:
Unplugged Activity- group plays 2 rounds against the class- one winning and one losing. This should be done before the code is presented (if we were in the classroom, students would move to the front of the class and play their game against the class. This can still be done in the remote environment, but with adaptations).
One group member explains their game- general rules 
One shows the code and explains how it works
One discusses the challenges and how they were overcome
Answers to questions from class
each member of the group will have a specific assignment; everyone will speak.
NYS CSS 9-12.IC.6; 9-12.CT.7; 9-12.CT.8; 9-12.CT.10; 9-12.DL.2
Audience:  use the grading rubric to assign a grade to each project.
Procedure- after each presentation, students will have 2 minutes to evaluate the work that was presented. (This is important because it allows the students to understand how they are being graded and also normalizes the grade. Sometimes students disagree with the grade they get from the teacher, but if that grade is aligned with the grade from their peers, it becomes more valid. Students will be called randomly to share their grades and to explain how they arrived at them.)

The Spaceman Game- Grading Rubric
Game functions without glitches- 20 pts
Correct letters are properly located in the word- 10 pts
Wrong letters are displayed- 10 pts
Counting for each try with deductions- 10 pts
There is an image tracking each wrong choice- 10 pts
Dialogues are properly written- 10 pts
Creativity- 10 pts
Presentation- 20 pts 
Randomly generated words- 10 pts

Wrap Up-
Short response- something you saw that you really liked. Be sure to identify the group. 


